# Crypto Portfolio Manager
## Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s1-b0gaO5ms
This program tracks the user's crypto portfolio and stores their holdings, and shows their total portfolio value in USD using information from [CoinGecko](https://www.coingecko.com/). You can buy and sell coins and view your portfolio in a neat table format.
# Description
I had started working on this idea after I had finished the third lecture on loops, and managed to store assets in a list of dictionaries, with each dictionary containing a key: coin name, and a value: amount held. I created an infinite loop that prompts the user using a ton of conditionals for the coin he's interacting with, the keywords "buy" or "sell", and the amount he's selling/buying. I then index into the specific dictionary containing the coin info, and add or subtract the amount he's selling/buying to/from the stored value.

When I tried outputting my holdings, I was only capable of printing the list of dictionaries, so it would show for example: [{"Bitcoin": 5},{"Ethereum": 2},{"Solana": 1}]. This of course wasn't the most elegant way to output data, but at that point, that was the best I could do. This approach obviously had many flaws; it didn't check validity of coins inputted, it didn't have the functionality to check USD price of coins / total portfolio value, and most importantly: it didn't save the assets I had logged! All the information was stored in memory and as soon as the program stopped, all the data inputted just evaporated.

I realised that I needed to learn more before I take on this task once again. I finished the object-oriented programming lecture, and I got fired up, I had a new idea to make this portfolio manager work! I created a class called coin, which has the methods buy, sell, value, I overrode the addition operator to be able to add multiple objects to allow me to calculate the total portfolio value, which all worked great, but when it came to storing the data, I tried importing pickle and dumping and loading objects, which made me run into issues when i tried updating instance variables of objects / coins inside of the pickled file.

I then shifted to the approach I'm submitting now, using comma-seperated values, and creating a class "Portfolio" which in a sense treats "portfolio.csv", the file that stores assets, as the object. Methods inside the Portfolio class are the same methods that were in my older approach with the coin class, the functions are different though as I am editing the csv file instead of updating instance variables of objects. For every coin input, it's validated by checking through the list of valid cryptocurrencies provided to me through an API call using the pycoingecko library. It works using command-line arguments, running "python project.py -h" will show all the arguments.